# Taxi-Booking-using-HTML5-CSS-JAVASCRIPT-MYSQL-PHP-and-Agile-Methodology
PrivateHire Cars is one of the largest private hire taxi companies in London. With a fleet of over 150 vehicles, they aim to provide a fast, friendly, and reliable service. Services include local/long distance journeys, airport and hotel transfers, meet and greet at airports as well as driver plus car for daily hire.
The company was formed in 2012 and has continued to expand to its current size and now has over 15 staff working at their Call Centre. The Board of Directors of PrivateHire Cars have now become concerned about the current situation; the Call Centre staff are getting extremely busy and must handle a large number of calls with the whole booking process becoming inefficient and time consuming especially since over the past year, a major investment has been made with the company installing a new GPS Despatch System and a Call Monitoring System. The Call Centre staff take the phone calls, and pass the request to the Control Centre, which monitors and despatches vehicles. The newly installed GPS tracking system greatly helps them in dealing with that.
PrivateHire Cars are now thinking, rather late in the day, of breaking into the market of online booking as wells the creation of mobile application for booking. They believe that the key to increased market share is having both pure online and hybrid telephone ordering capabilities as well as reach into the market of mobile applications by recognising the need to "go out and find customers and not wait for them to come to us", especially interested in targeting younger adults and business clients.
The company would also like to expand well into the car rental business and would therefore like the new system to keep track of different information e.g., popular cars, and the most loyal customers. Mr Smith, the general manager, also believes that it will provide an ideal opportunity to 'push' sales by profiling customers and offering special deals. This move aims to cut costs significantly, provides a better way to cope with rapid growth and increases revenues through customer profiling. He believes that this new system will improve existing customer satisfaction, which is his number one priority. He further thinks that they need to reach out to new customers and try to attract customers of different ages and backgrounds. They are also very open-minded to any new ideas.
I, as a consultant of a private Software Development Company, was called to assist PrivateHire Cars, with the development of their online system and provide further recommendations with regards to possible features their mobile app could support. They had a tight deadline of 6 months for the system to go live, staff should have been trained within 3 weeks and the analysis, design and development of the new system should have been within the budget of $100,000 as decided by the board of directors.
